Model.md, before:

﻿This is a class hierarchy for drawing simple meshes with support for loading models from Visual Studio 3D Starter Kit ``.CMO`` files, legacy DirectX SDK ``.SDKMESH`` files, and ``.VBO`` files. It is an implementation of a mesh renderer similar to the XNA Game Studio 4 (``Microsoft.Xna.Framework.Graphics``) Model, ModelMesh, ModelMeshPart design.

> _NOTE: Support for loading keyframe animations is not yet included._

A Model consists of one or more [[ModelMesh]] instances. The ModelMesh instances can be shared by multiple instances of Model. A ModelMesh instance consists of one or more ModelMeshPart instances.

Each [[ModelMeshPart]] references an index buffer, a vertex buffer, an input layout, an [[Effects]] instance, and includes various metadata for drawing the geometry. Each ModelMeshPart represents a single material to be drawn at the same time (i.e. a submesh).

![Screenshot](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXTK/wiki/images/ModelExample.png)

See also [[EffectFactory]]

**Related tutorial:** [[Rendering a model]]

# Header
```cpp
#include <Model.h>
```

# Initialization
Model instances can be loaded from either ``.CMO``, ``.SDKMESH``, or ``.VBO`` files, or from custom file formats. The Model loaders take an [[IEffectFactory|EffectFactory]] instance to facilitate the sharing of Effects and textures between models. The default _EffectFactory_ always returns built-in [[BasicEffect]], [[SkinnedEffect]], [[DualTextureEffect]], or [[NormalMapEffect]] instances. The _DGSLEffectFactory_ can be used with ``.CMO`` files to load Visual Studio Shader Designer (DGSL) shaders through [[DGSLEffect]] instances.

Visual Studio 2012 or later include a built-in content pipeline that can generate ``.CMO`` files from an Autodesk ``.FBX``, as well as ``.DDS`` texture files from various bitmap image formats, as part of the build process. See the Visual Studio 3D Starter Kit for details ([Windows 8.1](http://aka.ms/vs3dkitwin), [Windows 8.0](http://aka.ms/vs3dkitwin80)).

```cpp
m_fx = std::make_unqiue<DGSLEffectFactory>(device);
// Can also use EffectFactory, but will ignore pixel shader material settings

auto teapot = Model::CreateFromCMO( device, L"teapot.cmo", *m_fx );
```

For exception safety, the loaders return a ``std::unique_ptr``.

The [Samples Content Exporter](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=226208) will generate ``.SDKMESH`` files from an Autodesk ``.FBX``.

```cpp
m_fx = std::make_unique<EffectFactory>(device);
// Can also use DGSLEffectFactory, but will always use default materials

auto tiny = Model::CreateFromSDKMESH( device, L"tiny.sdkmesh", *m_fx );
```

The ``.VBO`` file format is a very simple geometry format containing a index buffer and a vertex buffer. It was originally introduced in the Windows 8.0 ResourceLoading sample, but can be generated by DirectXMesh's [meshconvert](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXMesh/wiki/Meshconvert) utility.

```cpp
auto ship = Model::CreateFromVBO( device, L"ship.vbo" );
```

A Model instance also contains a name (a wide-character string) for tracking and application logic. Model can be copied to create a new Model instance which will have shared references to the same set of ModelMesh instances (i.e. a 'shallow' copy).

# Simple drawing
The **Model::Draw** functions provides a high-level, easy to use method for drawing models.

```cpp
m_states = std::make_unique<CommonStates>(device);

XMMATRIX local = XMMatrixTranslation( 1.f, 1.f, 1.f );
local = XMMatrixMultiply( world, local );
tiny->Draw( context, states, local, view, projection );
```

There are optional parameters for rendering in wireframe and to provide a custom state override callback.

# Advanced drawing
Rather than using the standard Draw, the ``ModelMesh::Draw`` method can be used on each mesh in turn listed in the _Model::meshes_ collection. ``ModelMesh::Draw`` can be used to draw all the opaque parts or the alpha parts individually. The ``ModelMesh::PrepareForRendering`` method can be used as a helper to setup common render state, or the developer can set up the state directly before calling ``ModelMesh::Draw``. See [[ModelMesh]] for an example.

_``ModelMesh::PrepareForRendering`` sets the blend state, depth stencil state, raster state, and sets a pixel shader sampler._

More detailed control over rendering can be had by skipping the use of ``Model::Draw`` and ``ModelMesh::Draw`` in favor of the ``ModelMeshPart::Draw`` method. Each _Model::meshes_ collection can be scanned for each _ModelMesh::meshParts_ collection to enumerate all ModelMeshPart instances. For this version of draw, the _ModelMeshPart::effect_ and _ModelMeshPart::inputLayout_ can be used, or a custom effect override can be used instead (be sure to create the appropriate matching input layout for the custom effect beforehand using ``ModelMeshPart::CreateInputLayout``). See [[ModelMeshPart]] for an example.

# Effects control
The Model loaders create an appropriate Effects instance for each ModelMeshPart in a mesh. Generally all effects in a mesh should use the same lighting and fog settings, which is facilitated by the **Model::UpdateEffects** method. This calls back for each unique effect in the ModelMesh once.

```cpp
tiny->UpdateEffects([&](IEffect* effect)
{
    auto lights = dynamic_cast<IEffectLights*>(effect);
    if ( lights )
    {
        XMVECTOR dir = XMVector3Rotate( g_XMOne, quat );
        lights->SetLightDirection( 0, dir );
    }
    auto fog = dynamic_cast<IEffectFog*>(effect);
    if ( fog )
    {
        fog->SetFogEnabled(true);
        fog->SetFogStart(6); // assuming RH coordiantes
        fog->SetFogEnd(8);
        fog->SetFogColor(Colors::CornflowerBlue);
    }
});
```

It is also possible to change the Effects instance used by a given part (such as when overriding the default effect put in place from a Model loader) by calling ``ModelMeshPart::ModifyEffect``. This will regenerate the _ModelMeshPart::inputLayout_ appropriately.

Be sure to call **Model::Modified** on all Model instances that reference the impacted ModelMesh instance to ensure the cache used by ``UpdateEffects`` is correctly updated. ``Model::Modified`` should also be called whenever a Model::meshes or _ModelMesh::meshParts_ collection is modified.

As noted above, it is also possible to render part or all of a model using a custom effect as an override, rather than changing the effect referenced by the _ModelMeshPart::effect_ directly. See [[ModelMeshPart]] for an example.

# Alpha blending
Proper drawing of alpha-blended models can be a complicated procedure. Each ModelMeshPart has a bool value to indicate if the associated part is fully opaque (_isAlpha_ is false), or has some level of alpha transparency (_isAlpha_ is true). The ``Model::Draw`` routine handles some basic logic for the rendering, first rendering the opaque parts, then rendering the alpha parts.  More detailed control is provided by the ``ModelMesh::Draw`` method which can be used to draw all opaque parts of all meshes first, then go back and draw all alpha parts of all meshes second. See [[ModelMesh]] for an example.

To indicate the use of ‘straight’ alpha vs. ‘premultiplied’ alpha blending modes, _ModelMesh::pmalpha_ is set by the various loaders functions controlled by a default parameter (which defaults false to indicate the texture files are using 'straight' alpha). If you make use of DirectXTex's [texconv](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXTex/wiki/Texconv) tool with the ``-pmalpha`` switch, you should use _pmalpha=true_ instead.

# Custom render states
All the various ``Draw`` method provide a _setCustomState_ callback which can be used to change the state just before the geometry is drawn.

```cpp
tiny->Draw( context, states, local, view, projection, false, [&]()
{
    ID3D11ShaderResourceView* srv = nullptr;
    context->PSSetShaderResources( 0, 1, &srv );
});
```

# Coordinate systems
Meshes are authored in a specific winding order, typically using the standard counter-clockwise winding common in graphics. The choice of viewing handedness (right-handed vs. left-handed coordinates) is largely a matter of preference and convenience, but it impacts how the models are built and/or exported.

The Visual Studio 3D Starter Kit’s ``.CMO`` files assume the developer is using right-handed coordinates. DirectXTK’s default parameters assume you are using right-handed coordinates as well, so the _ccw_ parameter defaults to true. If using a ``.CMO`` with left-handed coordinates, you should pass false for the _ccw_ parameter which will use clockwise winding instead. This makes the geometry visible, but could make textures on the model appear ‘flipped’ in U.

```cpp
// When using LH coordinates
auto teapot = Model::CreateFromCMO( device, L"teapot.cmo", fx, false );
```

The legacy DirectX SDK’s ``.SDKMESH`` files assume the developer is using left-handed coordinates. DirectXTK’s default parameters assume you are using right-handed coordinates, so the _ccw_ parameter defaults to false which will use clockwise winding and potentially have the ‘flipped in U’ texture problem. If using a ``.SDKMESH`` with left-handed coordinates, you should pass true for the _ccw_ parameter.

```cpp
// When using LH coordinates
auto tiny = Model::CreateFromSDKMESH( device, L"tiny.sdkmesh", fx, true );
```

# Feature Level Notes
If any ModelMeshPart makes use of 32-bit indices (i.e. ModelMeshPart:: indexFormat equals ``DXGI_FORMAT_R32_UINT``) rather than 16-bit indices (``DXGI_FORMAT_R16_UINT``), then that model requires [Feature Level](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/direct3d11/overviews-direct3d-11-devices-downlevel-intro) 9.2 or greater.

If any ModelMeshPart uses adjacency (i.e. ModelMeshPart::primitiveType equals ``D3D_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_*_ADJ``), then that model requires Feature Level 10.0 or greater. If using tessellation (i.e. ``D3D_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_?_CONTROL_POINT_PATCHLIST``), then that model requires Feature Level 11.0 or greater.

Keep in mind that there are maximum primitive count limits per ModelMeshPart based on feature level as well (65535 for Feature Level 9.1, 1048575 or Feature Level 9.2 and 9.3, and 4294967295 for Feature Level 10.0 or greater).

See [[EffectFactory]] for more Feature Level notes.

[Direct3D feature levels](https://aka.ms/Apsgrj)

# Content Notes

See [Geometry formats](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXMesh/wiki/Geometry-formats) for more information.

## SDKMESH
The ``.SDKMESH`` [Samples Content Exporter](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=226208) uses Autodesk FBX 2013.3.1 or later.

## CMO
The VS 2012 and 2013 ``.CMO`` exporter uses Autodesk FBX 2013.1. VS 2015 uses Autodesk FBX 2015.1. Recommended settings for exporting an FBX as a CMO include:

* Geometry: Smoothing Groups, TurboSmooth, Convert Deforming Dummies to Bones, Preserve edge orientation
* Animation: Bake Animation (Start=0, End=100, Step=1), Deformations, Skins, Morphs
* Units: Automatic
* Axis conversion: Y-up
* FBX File Format: Binary, FBX 2013

## VBO
A ``.VBO`` file does not contain any material or attribute information. The loader will create a default untextured BasicEffect when loading the model, or you can provide your own instance to use:

```cpp
ComPtr<ID3D11ShaderResourceView> defaultTex;
ComPtr<ID3D11ShaderResourceView> cubeMap;
// ...
auto effect = std::make_shared<EnvironmentMapEffect>(device);
effect->EnableDefaultLighting();
effect->SetTexture(defaultTex.Get());
effect->SetEnvironmentMap(cubeMap.Get());

auto ship = Model::CreateFromVBO( device, L"ship.vbo", effect );
```

# Threading model
The ModelMeshPart is tied to a device, but not a device context. This means that Model creation/loading is ‘free threaded’. Drawing can be done on the immediate context or by a deferred context, but keep in mind device contexts are not ‘free threaded’. See [[EffectFactory]] for some additional notes.

# State management

When ``Draw`` is called,  it will set the states needed to render with the Model's effects. Existing state is not save or restored. For efficiency, it simply sets the state it requires to render and assumes that any subsequent rendering will overwrite state that it needs.

Model makes use of the following states:

* BlendState
* Constant buffer (Vertex Shader and Pixel Shader stages, slot 0)
* DepthStencilState
* Index buffer
* Input layout
* Pixel shader
* Primitive topology
* RasterizerState
* SamplerState (Pixel Shader stage, slots 0 and 1)
* Shader resources (Pixel Shader stage, slots 0 and 1)
* Vertex buffer (slot 0)
* Vertex shader

> If you used [[DGSLEffectFactory|EffectFactory]] for the model then ``Draw`` will make use of additional state as outlined in [[Effects]]

The Model class assumes you've already set the Render Target view, Depth Stencil view, and Viewport.

> Be sure that if you set any of the following shaders prior to using built-in effects for your ``Model`` instances that you clear them: Geometry Shader, Hull Shader, Domain Shader, Compute Shader.

# Further reading

[Models, meshes, parts, and bones]( http://www.shawnhargreaves.com/blog/models-meshes-parts-and-bones.html)

Commit message:

Updated for model loader flags

Model.md, after:

﻿This is a class hierarchy for drawing simple meshes with support for loading models from Visual Studio 3D Starter Kit ``.CMO`` files, legacy DirectX SDK ``.SDKMESH`` files, and ``.VBO`` files. It is an implementation of a mesh renderer similar to the XNA Game Studio 4 (``Microsoft.Xna.Framework.Graphics``) Model, ModelMesh, ModelMeshPart design.

> _NOTE: Support for loading keyframe animations is not yet included._

A Model consists of one or more [[ModelMesh]] instances. The ModelMesh instances can be shared by multiple instances of Model. A ModelMesh instance consists of one or more ModelMeshPart instances.

Each [[ModelMeshPart]] references an index buffer, a vertex buffer, an input layout, an [[Effects]] instance, and includes various metadata for drawing the geometry. Each ModelMeshPart represents a single material to be drawn at the same time (i.e. a submesh).

![Screenshot](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXTK/wiki/images/ModelExample.png)

See also [[EffectFactory]]

**Related tutorial:** [[Rendering a model]]

# Header
```cpp
#include <Model.h>
```

# Initialization
Model instances can be loaded from either ``.CMO``, ``.SDKMESH``, or ``.VBO`` files, or from custom file formats. The Model loaders take an [[IEffectFactory|EffectFactory]] instance to facilitate the sharing of Effects and textures between models. The default _EffectFactory_ always returns built-in [[BasicEffect]], [[SkinnedEffect]], [[DualTextureEffect]], or [[NormalMapEffect]] instances. The _DGSLEffectFactory_ can be used with ``.CMO`` files to load Visual Studio Shader Designer (DGSL) shaders through [[DGSLEffect]] instances.

Visual Studio 2012 or later include a built-in content pipeline that can generate ``.CMO`` files from an Autodesk ``.FBX``, as well as ``.DDS`` texture files from various bitmap image formats, as part of the build process. See the Visual Studio 3D Starter Kit for details ([Windows 8.1](http://aka.ms/vs3dkitwin), [Windows 8.0](http://aka.ms/vs3dkitwin80)).

```cpp
m_fx = std::make_unqiue<DGSLEffectFactory>(device);
// Can also use EffectFactory, but will ignore pixel shader material settings

auto teapot = Model::CreateFromCMO( device, L"teapot.cmo", *m_fx );
```

For exception safety, the loaders return a ``std::unique_ptr``.

The [Samples Content Exporter](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=226208) will generate ``.SDKMESH`` files from an Autodesk ``.FBX``.

```cpp
m_fx = std::make_unique<EffectFactory>(device);
// Can also use DGSLEffectFactory, but will always use default materials

auto tiny = Model::CreateFromSDKMESH( device, L"tiny.sdkmesh", *m_fx );
```

The ``.VBO`` file format is a very simple geometry format containing a index buffer and a vertex buffer. It was originally introduced in the Windows 8.0 ResourceLoading sample, but can be generated by DirectXMesh's [meshconvert](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXMesh/wiki/Meshconvert) utility.

```cpp
auto ship = Model::CreateFromVBO( device, L"ship.vbo" );
```

A Model instance also contains a name (a wide-character string) for tracking and application logic. Model can be copied to create a new Model instance which will have shared references to the same set of ModelMesh instances (i.e. a 'shallow' copy).

# Simple drawing
The **Model::Draw** functions provides a high-level, easy to use method for drawing models.

```cpp
m_states = std::make_unique<CommonStates>(device);

XMMATRIX local = XMMatrixTranslation( 1.f, 1.f, 1.f );
local = XMMatrixMultiply( world, local );
tiny->Draw( context, states, local, view, projection );
```

There are optional parameters for rendering in wireframe and to provide a custom state override callback.

# Advanced drawing
Rather than using the standard Draw, the ``ModelMesh::Draw`` method can be used on each mesh in turn listed in the _Model::meshes_ collection. ``ModelMesh::Draw`` can be used to draw all the opaque parts or the alpha parts individually. The ``ModelMesh::PrepareForRendering`` method can be used as a helper to setup common render state, or the developer can set up the state directly before calling ``ModelMesh::Draw``. See [[ModelMesh]] for an example.

_``ModelMesh::PrepareForRendering`` sets the blend state, depth stencil state, raster state, and sets a pixel shader sampler._

More detailed control over rendering can be had by skipping the use of ``Model::Draw`` and ``ModelMesh::Draw`` in favor of the ``ModelMeshPart::Draw`` method. Each _Model::meshes_ collection can be scanned for each _ModelMesh::meshParts_ collection to enumerate all ModelMeshPart instances. For this version of draw, the _ModelMeshPart::effect_ and _ModelMeshPart::inputLayout_ can be used, or a custom effect override can be used instead (be sure to create the appropriate matching input layout for the custom effect beforehand using ``ModelMeshPart::CreateInputLayout``). See [[ModelMeshPart]] for an example.

# Effects control
The Model loaders create an appropriate Effects instance for each ModelMeshPart in a mesh. Generally all effects in a mesh should use the same lighting and fog settings, which is facilitated by the **Model::UpdateEffects** method. This calls back for each unique effect in the ModelMesh once.

```cpp
tiny->UpdateEffects([&](IEffect* effect)
{
    auto lights = dynamic_cast<IEffectLights*>(effect);
    if ( lights )
    {
        XMVECTOR dir = XMVector3Rotate( g_XMOne, quat );
        lights->SetLightDirection( 0, dir );
    }
    auto fog = dynamic_cast<IEffectFog*>(effect);
    if ( fog )
    {
        fog->SetFogEnabled(true);
        fog->SetFogStart(6); // assuming RH coordiantes
        fog->SetFogEnd(8);
        fog->SetFogColor(Colors::CornflowerBlue);
    }
});
```

It is also possible to change the Effects instance used by a given part (such as when overriding the default effect put in place from a Model loader) by calling ``ModelMeshPart::ModifyEffect``. This will regenerate the _ModelMeshPart::inputLayout_ appropriately.

Be sure to call **Model::Modified** on all Model instances that reference the impacted ModelMesh instance to ensure the cache used by ``UpdateEffects`` is correctly updated. ``Model::Modified`` should also be called whenever a Model::meshes or _ModelMesh::meshParts_ collection is modified.

As noted above, it is also possible to render part or all of a model using a custom effect as an override, rather than changing the effect referenced by the _ModelMeshPart::effect_ directly. See [[ModelMeshPart]] for an example.

# Alpha blending
Proper drawing of alpha-blended models can be a complicated procedure. Each ModelMeshPart has a bool value to indicate if the associated part is fully opaque (_isAlpha_ is false), or has some level of alpha transparency (_isAlpha_ is true). The ``Model::Draw`` routine handles some basic logic for the rendering, first rendering the opaque parts, then rendering the alpha parts.  More detailed control is provided by the ``ModelMesh::Draw`` method which can be used to draw all opaque parts of all meshes first, then go back and draw all alpha parts of all meshes second. See [[ModelMesh]] for an example.

To indicate the use of 'straight' alpha vs. 'premultiplied' alpha blending modes, _ModelMesh::pmalpha_ is set by the various loaders functions controlled by a default parameter (which defaults false to indicate the texture files are using 'straight' alpha). If you make use of DirectXTex's [texconv](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXTex/wiki/Texconv) tool with the ``-pmalpha`` switch, you should use _pmalpha=true_ instead.

# Custom render states
All the various ``Draw`` method provide a _setCustomState_ callback which can be used to change the state just before the geometry is drawn.

```cpp
tiny->Draw( context, states, local, view, projection, false, [&]()
{
    ID3D11ShaderResourceView* srv = nullptr;
    context->PSSetShaderResources( 0, 1, &srv );
});
```

# Coordinate systems
Meshes are authored in a specific winding order, typically using the standard counter-clockwise winding common in graphics. The choice of viewing handedness (right-handed vs. left-handed coordinates) is largely a matter of preference and convenience, but it impacts how the models are built and/or exported.

The Visual Studio 3D Starter Kit's ``.CMO`` files assume the developer is using right-handed coordinates. DirectXTK's default parameters assume you are using right-handed coordinates as well, so the model loader flags default to ``ModelLoader_CounterClockwise``. If using a ``.CMO`` with left-handed coordinates, you should pass ``ModelLoader_Clockwise`` instead which will use clockwise winding. This makes the geometry visible, but could make textures on the model appear 'flipped' in U.

```cpp
// When using LH coordinates
auto teapot = Model::CreateFromCMO( device, L"teapot.cmo", fx, ModelLoader_Clockwise );
```

The legacy DirectX SDK's ``.SDKMESH`` files assume the developer is using left-handed coordinates. DirectXTK's default parameters assume you are using right-handed coordinates, so the model loader flags default to ``ModelLoader_Clockwise`` which will use clockwise winding and potentially have the 'flipped in U' texture problem. If using a ``.SDKMESH`` with left-handed coordinates, you should pass ``ModelLoader_CounterClockwise`` instead.

```cpp
// When using LH coordinates
auto tiny = Model::CreateFromSDKMESH( device, L"tiny.sdkmesh", fx, ModelLoader_CounterClockwise );
```

# Model Loader Flags

The various ``CreateFrom*`` methods have a defaulted parameter to provide additional model loader flags control.

* ``ModelLoader_Clockwise``: Should use a clockwise winding for backface-culling.

* ``ModelLoader_CounterClockwise``: Should use counter-clockwise winding for backface-culling.

* ``ModelLoader_PremultipledAlpha``: Should use premultipled alpha blending instead of 'straight' Alpha

* ``ModelLoader_MaterialColorsSRGB``: Material colors specified in the model file should be converted from sRGB to Linear colorspace.

* ``ModelLoader_AllowLargeModels``: Allows models with VBs/IBs that exceed the required resource size support for all Direct3D device indicated by the ``D3D11_REQ_RESOURCE_SIZE_IN_MEGABYTES_EXPRESSION_x_TERM`` constants.

# Feature Level Notes
If any ModelMeshPart makes use of 32-bit indices (i.e. ModelMeshPart:: indexFormat equals ``DXGI_FORMAT_R32_UINT``) rather than 16-bit indices (``DXGI_FORMAT_R16_UINT``), then that model requires [Feature Level](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/direct3d11/overviews-direct3d-11-devices-downlevel-intro) 9.2 or greater.

If any ModelMeshPart uses adjacency (i.e. ModelMeshPart::primitiveType equals ``D3D_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_*_ADJ``), then that model requires Feature Level 10.0 or greater. If using tessellation (i.e. ``D3D_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_?_CONTROL_POINT_PATCHLIST``), then that model requires Feature Level 11.0 or greater.

Keep in mind that there are maximum primitive count limits per ModelMeshPart based on feature level as well (65535 for Feature Level 9.1, 1048575 or Feature Level 9.2 and 9.3, and 4294967295 for Feature Level 10.0 or greater).

See [[EffectFactory]] for more Feature Level notes.

[Direct3D feature levels](https://aka.ms/Apsgrj)

# Content Notes

See [Geometry formats](https://github.com/Microsoft/DirectXMesh/wiki/Geometry-formats) for more information.

## SDKMESH
The ``.SDKMESH`` [Samples Content Exporter](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=226208) uses Autodesk FBX 2013.3.1 or later.

## CMO
The VS 2012 and 2013 ``.CMO`` exporter uses Autodesk FBX 2013.1. VS 2015 uses Autodesk FBX 2015.1. Recommended settings for exporting an FBX as a CMO include:

* Geometry: Smoothing Groups, TurboSmooth, Convert Deforming Dummies to Bones, Preserve edge orientation
* Animation: Bake Animation (Start=0, End=100, Step=1), Deformations, Skins, Morphs
* Units: Automatic
* Axis conversion: Y-up
* FBX File Format: Binary, FBX 2013

## VBO
A ``.VBO`` file does not contain any material or attribute information. The loader will create a default untextured BasicEffect when loading the model, or you can provide your own instance to use:

```cpp
ComPtr<ID3D11ShaderResourceView> defaultTex;
ComPtr<ID3D11ShaderResourceView> cubeMap;
// ...
auto effect = std::make_shared<EnvironmentMapEffect>(device);
effect->EnableDefaultLighting();
effect->SetTexture(defaultTex.Get());
effect->SetEnvironmentMap(cubeMap.Get());

auto ship = Model::CreateFromVBO( device, L"ship.vbo", effect );
```

# Threading model
The ModelMeshPart is tied to a device, but not a device context. This means that Model creation/loading is 'free threaded'. Drawing can be done on the immediate context or by a deferred context, but keep in mind device contexts are not 'free threaded'. See [[EffectFactory]] for some additional notes.

# State management

When ``Draw`` is called,  it will set the states needed to render with the Model's effects. Existing state is not save or restored. For efficiency, it simply sets the state it requires to render and assumes that any subsequent rendering will overwrite state that it needs.

Model makes use of the following states:

* BlendState
* Constant buffer (Vertex Shader and Pixel Shader stages, slot 0)
* DepthStencilState
* Index buffer
* Input layout
* Pixel shader
* Primitive topology
* RasterizerState
* SamplerState (Pixel Shader stage, slots 0 and 1)
* Shader resources (Pixel Shader stage, slots 0 and 1)
* Vertex buffer (slot 0)
* Vertex shader

> If you used [[DGSLEffectFactory|EffectFactory]] for the model then ``Draw`` will make use of additional state as outlined in [[Effects]]

The Model class assumes you've already set the Render Target view, Depth Stencil view, and Viewport.

> Be sure that if you set any of the following shaders prior to using built-in effects for your ``Model`` instances that you clear them: Geometry Shader, Hull Shader, Domain Shader, Compute Shader.

# Further reading

[Models, meshes, parts, and bones]( http://www.shawnhargreaves.com/blog/models-meshes-parts-and-bones.html)
